CSCB58 Project File: Summer 2017

Team Member A
-------------
First Name: Mark
Last Name: Padilla
Student Number: 1002463069
UofT E-mail Address: markjj.padilla@mail.utoronto.ca


Team Member B
-------------
First Name: Minhaz
Last Name: Khan
Student Number: 1002399852
UofT E-mail Address: minhaz.khan@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member C (Optional)
-------------
First Name: 
Last Name:
Student Number:
UofT E-mail Address:

Team Member D (Optional)
-------------
First Name: 
Last Name:
Student Number:
UofT E-mail Address:

Project Details
---------------
Project Title:Pokemon Battle Simulator

Project Description: An arcade-style Pokemon RPG battle, player vs AI.

Features:
* Hit rates decided by RNG
    * HP displayed on hexes
    * Uses counters to decrease HP upon hit
* Player has one Pokemon
    * Stretch goal - player has up to six Pokemon, and can switch  either upon fainting or via switches
* Pokemon has one attack that does 1 damage
    * Stretch goal - multiple moves with varying damage points
* AI also has one Pokemon, and is also subject to RNG for hit rate
    * Stretch goal - AI has six Pokemon, which results in a typical 6 on 6 Pokemon battle
* Stretch goal - type advantages: Fire vs Water vs Grass, 2x damage for super effective, 1/2 damage for not very effective
* Stretch goal - battle music using speakers
    * Stretch stretch goal - players can choose between multiple songs before entering battle

Video URL:

Code URL (please upload a copy of this file to your repository at the end of the project as well, it will
serve as a useful resource for future development):
https://github.com/MarquisLP/PBS/tree/pbs-advanced
(Use the pbs-advanced branch, NOT the master branch)


Proposal
--------

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the first lab session?:
RNG for the player's and AI's attack hit rates. Damage counter. HP hexes.

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the second lab session?: FSM for battle flow. Datapath/ALU for HP and damage calculations. If there is extra time, begin stretch goals: multiple attacks, multiple Pokemon for player and AI.
,

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the third lab session?:
Stretch goals: music/speakers, music selection before battle

What is your backup plan if things don't work out as planned?
Just get basic 1v1 battle working, possibly with one song playing.

What hardware will you need beyond the DE2 board 
(be sure to e-mail Brian if it's anything beyond the basics to make sure there's enough to go around)
Speakers, and possibly breadboards for LEDs that represent the Pokemon.

Motivations
-----------
How does this project relate to the material covered in CSCB58?:
RNG and damage counters make use of sequential circuits. We use an FSM to control battleflow, registers for keeping track of Pokemon and their HP, and an ALU for calculations.

Why is this project interesting/cool (for CSCB58 students, and for non CSCB58 students?):
Because Pokemon has been integral part of our generation, and making a battle simulator is a great way to pay homage to our childhood.

Why did you personally choose this project?:
Pokemon was a big part of our childhood.

Attributions
------------
Provide a complete list of any external resources your project used (attributions should also be included in your
code).

Verilog RNG module using Galois Ring Oscillators (GARO), by StanOverflow:
https://stackoverflow.com/a/26280438

Update
-------

Week 1: We spent most of our time trying to implement a random number generator
module. We tried 3 different implementations that we found online, and only one of
them ended up working, but we had to make some modifications to get it to work with
our project. Once that was done, we tested our 'hit accuracy' concept by writing
some test code that would turn an red LED on if the RNG module outputted a number
above a certain value, or turn a green LED on if it was below that value. Because
of this test, we decided to make these 'hit-or-miss' indicator LEDs part of the
final product.
Apart from that, we also tested the idea of HP by hooking up a 4-bit reg output to
a hex display, and having the value on the hex decrement by 1d each time the RNG
module outputted a number above a certain value. For some reason, our hex display
code wouldn't work, so we spent about half our lab time digging through old lab
code to fix it. In retrospect, it's a good thing we caught this now rather than
later, as making the actual HP counters will now be less troublesome.

Week 2: We implemented all of the remaining modules that we had planned for our
design. This includes the FSM/Control, the Datapath, a simple ALU for calculating
HP damage, a 'Move Mux' for selecting the move/attack select by the player or AI,
and the top-level module that combines all of these elements.
During testing, we encountered major issues with our HP registers. After the player
enters their move and hits the 'Go' key, the AI's HP and sometimes the player's HP
would immediately drop down to 0.
While debugging this issue, we found many errors in our implementation and other
areas that needed improvement. The biggest change came from realizing that we could
update the player and AI's HP in a single clock cycle, which led us to make
significant simplications in our FSM and Datapath. However, the HP registers
still behave oddly, so further debugging will need to be done.
At this point, implementing our stretch goals, such as multiple Pokemon and playing
music, seems highly unlikely.

Week 3: We spent the early part of the week attempting to fix the HP problem that
we had from Week 2, but to no avail. On Thursday we went to Professor Harrington
for help. He revealed that our problem was most likely with the FSM, and suggested
that we run through the states manually using keys to make sure. Upon doing that,
we realized that the problem came from CLOCK_50 running through all of our states
too quickly, so we decided to change our clock input into a key. After doing that,
the HP problem was fixed.
After that, in the lab, we successfully implemented all of the base game mechanics:
choosing moves, applying damage to the AI's Pokemon based on RNG, and doing the
same for the AI.
During extra lab time on Saturday, we also implemented a few new features/stretch
goals: adding a 'menu' state, where the player can choose to attack, heal, or
attempt to catch the Pokemon. The new heal and catch states worked out just as
planned, but we experienced some oddities with the game going to the wrong state.
This doesn't happen everytime time, though, so we plan on using our remaining time
to check if these issues were just caused by a finicky board. If the board isn't
the problem, then we'll use the time to debug whatever issues are left.
Our last stretch goal is to display the option that the player selected on the menu
state, using hexes. This would require making a unique hex decoder that can output
letters beyond the usual hexadecimal range (such as 'H' and 'L' for 'heal').
